Write-up for draft-ietf-dhc-v4configuration-04

Changes are expected over time. This version is dated 24 February
2012.

(1) What type of RFC is being requested (BCP, Proposed Standard,
Internet Standard, Informational, Experimental, or Historic)? Why is
this the proper type of RFC? Is this type of RFC indicated in the
title page header?

  Informational, as clearly indicated in the title page header.
  This is the proper type.

(2) The IESG approval announcement includes a Document Announcement
Write-Up. Please provide such a Document Announcement Write-Up. Recent
examples can be found in the "Action" announcements for approved
documents. The approval announcement contains the following sections:

Technical Summary:

  As IPv6 becomes more widely adopted, some service providers are
  choosing to deploy IPv6 only networks without dual-stack
  functionality for IPv4.  However, as access to IPv4 based services
  will continue to be a requirement for the foreseeable future, IPv4
  over IPv6 mechanisms, such as softwire tunnels are being developed.

  In order to provision end-user's hosts with the IPv4 configuration
  necessary for such mechanisms, a number of different approaches have
  been proposed.  This memo discusses each of the proposals, identifies
  the benefits and drawbacks and recommends a solution as the
  basis for future deployment and development.

Working Group Summary:

Was there anything in WG process that is worth noting? For example,
was there controversy about particular points or were there decisions
where the consensus was particularly rough?

  This document is a DHC WG attempt to answer a long standing question
  on how to configure IPv4 nodes in IPv6-only network. This discussion
  started several years ago in Softwires, but couldn't make much
  progress due to lack of consensus. The initial couple months of
  discussions in DHC were very heated with multitude of approaches being
  discussed and strong opinions exchanged. The last two IETF meetings
  and follow-up discussions showed covergence on the favored way
  forward: DHCPv4-over-DHCPv6. Ole Troan insisted that his proposal of
  native DHCPv4 can be run over Softwires, but there were doubts if this
  solution is feasible in general case. As a result, the -04 version was
  essentially worded as "Use native DHCPv4 if possible, if not, use
  DHCPv4-over-DHCPv6". During WGLC a number of comments were received,
  with changes being suggested.

[TODO: describe -05 once it is published]

Softwire WG expects this document

Document Quality:

Are there existing implementations of the protocol? Have a significant
number of vendors indicated their plan to implement the specification?
Are there any reviewers that merit special mention as having done a
thorough review, e.g., one that resulted in important changes or a
conclusion that the document had no substantive issues? If there was a
MIB Doctor, Media Type or other expert review, what was its course
(briefly)? In the case of a Media Type review, on what date was the
request posted?

  This is a recommendation document, so there are no direct
  implementations. However, it compares several protocol proposals and
  the fact of existence (or lack of thereof) for each compared solutions
  is noted. There are no special expert reviews (MIB Doctor, Media Type,
  etc.) needed.

Personnel:

Who is the Document Shepherd? Who is the Responsible Area Director?

  Tomek Mrugalski is the Document Shepherd.
  Ted Lemon is Responsible Aread Director.

(3) Briefly describe the review of this document that was performed by
the Document Shepherd. If this version of the document is not ready
for publication, please explain why the document is being forwarded to
the IESG.

  I have reviewed this document twice and participated in several
  off-the list discussions:
  http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/dhcwg/current/msg13799.html
  http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/dhcwg/current/msg15268.html

  This document is ready in my opinion for the IESG.

(4) Does the document Shepherd have any concerns about the depth or
breadth of the reviews that have been performed?

  No. There were 143 mails sent to DHC ML about this draft. Much more
  if we count prior discussions in Softwires and related discussions
  in DHC (mostly about DHCPv4-over-DHCPv6 and its predecessor DHCPv4-
  over-IPv6). It was extensively discussed on several meetings. Various
  concepts were also previously discussed in Softwires. The strong
  consensus in DHC is to wrap up the discussion and do not continue
  it any further.

  Although this document is DHC specific, it touches some topics
  from Softwires. In fact, its creation is a result of a request
  from Softwires to answer the question on how to do DHCPv4 in
  IPv6-only networks. It should be noted that many key players
  (Ole Troan, Ian Farrer, Suresh Krishnan, Simon Perreault)
  from Softwires were actively involved in this discussion.

  This document was also presented in a joint Sunset4/DHC session in
  Berlin, where it received favorable responses.

(5) Do portions of the document need review from a particular or from
broader perspective, e.g., security, operational complexity, AAA, DNS,
DHCP, XML, or internationalization? If so, describe the review that
took place.

  There are no such sections. The whole document is about DHCP, hence
  the DHC WG is proper place for it. People from Softwires were
  participating in this discussion.

(6) Describe any specific concerns or issues that the Document
Shepherd has with this document that the Responsible Area Director
and/or the IESG should be aware of? For example, perhaps he or she is
uncomfortable with certain parts of the document, or has concerns
whether there really is a need for it. In any event, if the WG has
discussed those issues and has indicated that it still wishes to
advance the document, detail those concerns here.

  This is not a concern, but rather an observation. This document tries
  to make a decision about selecting one DHCP solution. This results
  in all other alternatives being deprecated. This may be disappointing
  for those who were involved in those alternatives.

  One comment that remains unaddressed was raised by Ole Troan:
  http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/dhcwg/current/msg15190.html
  He suggested that the bullet 7 in Section 2 ("Not restricted to
  specific IPv4 over IPv6 transport mechanisms or architectures.")
  should be removed. That is in direct contradition to what chairs,
  authors and Ted Lemon (responsible AD) thinks. Our strong belief
  is that the solution should be as generic as possible and not tied
  to specific existing transition technologies, if possible.
  Therefore Ole's comment was not addressed.

(7) Has each author confirmed that any and all appropriate IPR
disclosures required for full conformance with the provisions of BCP
78 and BCP 79 have already been filed. If not, explain why?

  Both authors confirmed in writing that they are not aware of any
  IPR claims. As a side note, such claims are unlikely to ever appear
  as this is a comparative document that evaluates other proposals.

(8) Has an IPR disclosure been filed that references this document? If
so, summarize any WG discussion and conclusion regarding the IPR
disclosures.

  There are no IPR disclosures.

(9) How solid is the WG consensus behind this document? Does it
represent the strong concurrence of a few individuals, with others
being silent, or does the WG as a whole understand and agree with it?

  The -02 version was presented during Vancouver. The question was
  asked whether WG wants to reopen the discussion about recommendation
  make. The answer was that the previously reached consensus still
  stands. There was noone in the room who opposed that.

(10) Has anyone threatened an appeal or otherwise indicated extreme
discontent? If so, please summarise the areas of conflict in separate
email messages to the Responsible Area Director. (It should be in a
separate email because this questionnaire is publicly available.)

  Yes. During WGLC of the related draft (draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv4-over-dhpv6)
  the discussion disgressed into v4configuration conclusion:
  http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/dhcwg/current/msg15076.html

  Several steps were taken to mitigate that objection. In particular,
  v4configuration draft was changed from "Use DHCPv4-over-DHCPv6" to
  "Use native DHCPv4, if possible. If not, use DHCPv4-over-DHCPv6".
  Ole said that -04 "looks a lot better.":
  http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/dhcwg/current/msg15179.html

(11) Identify any ID nits the Document Shepherd has found in this
document. (See http://www.ietf.org/tools/idnits/ and the
Internet-Drafts Checklist). Boilerplate checks are not enough; this
check needs to be thorough.

  No nits in -04.

(12) Describe how the document meets any required formal review
criteria, such as the MIB Doctor, media type, and URI type reviews.

  No such review is needed.

(13) Have all references within this document been identified as
either normative or informative?

  Yes.

(14) Are there normative references to documents that are not ready
for advancement or are otherwise in an unclear state? If such
normative references exist, what is the plan for their completion?

  No.

(15) Are there downward normative references references (see RFC
3967)? If so, list these downward references to support the Area
Director in the Last Call procedure.

  No.

(16) Will publication of this document change the status of any
existing RFCs? Are those RFCs listed on the title page header, listed
in the abstract, and discussed in the introduction? If the RFCs are
not listed in the Abstract and Introduction, explain why, and point to
the part of the document where the relationship of this document to
the other RFCs is discussed. If this information is not in the
document, explain why the WG considers it unnecessary.

  No. This is an informational document that does not update or
  obsolete anything.

(17) Describe the Document Shepherd's review of the IANA
considerations section, especially with regard to its consistency with
the body of the document. Confirm that all protocol extensions that
the document makes are associated with the appropriate reservations in
IANA registries. Confirm that any referenced IANA registries have been
clearly identified. Confirm that newly created IANA registries include
a detailed specification of the initial contents for the registry,
that allocations procedures for future registrations are defined, and
a reasonable name for the new registry has been suggested (see RFC
5226).

  This is informative document, so there are no IANA actions. There
  is a boilerplate IANA section that clearly states that no actions
  are requested.

(18) List any new IANA registries that require Expert Review for
future allocations. Provide any public guidance that the IESG would
find useful in selecting the IANA Experts for these new registries.

  There are none.

(19) Describe reviews and automated checks performed by the Document
Shepherd to validate sections of the document written in a formal
language, such as XML code, BNF rules, MIB definitions, etc.

  No such sections in the draft, hence no review needed.
