(1) What type of RFC is being requested (BCP, Proposed Standard, 
    Internet Standard, Informational, Experimental, or Historic)? Why 
    is this the proper type of RFC? Is this type of RFC indicated in 
    the title page header? 

Proposed Standard.  This documents an extension to the DHCPv6 
protocol, so it only really makes sense as a PS.  The intended type is 
indicated in the header. 

(2) The IESG approval announcement includes a Document Announcement 
    Write-Up. Please provide such a Document Announcement 
    Write-Up. Recent examples can be found in the "Action" 
    announcements for approved documents. The approval announcement 
    contains the following sections: 

Technical Summary: 

This document defines new DHCPv6 messages: Reconfigure-Request and
Reconfigure-Reply. Reconfigure-Request message is sent by a DHCPv6
relay agent to notify a DHCPv6 server about a configuration
information change, so that the DHCPv6 server can send a Reconfigure
message accordingly. Reconfigure-Reply message is used by the server
to acknowledge the receipt of Reconfigure-Request. 

Working Group Summary: 

This document was proposed in the working group in August 2012 as an 
extension to trigger client reconfiguration, via the DHCPv6 server,
when configuration changes are made on the relay agent. The work was
adopted as a WG item in September 2012 as there was good support and
interest for the work.

Document Quality: 

I'm not aware of any existing implementations. This is something that 
a number of folks and relay agent vendors have requested, and we
expect to see implementation in relay agents and servers.. I think
everyone who provided substantive review of the document is mentioned
in the acknowledgements section. 


Personnel: 

Bernie Volz is the document shepherd. Ted Lemon is the responsible AD. 

(3) Briefly describe the review of this document that was performed by 
    the Document Shepherd. If this version of the document is not 
    ready for publication, please explain why the document is being 
    forwarded to the IESG. 

I read the document thoroughly, and submitted quite a few editorial 
suggestions to the authors, which they implemented.  The differences 
between the -02 and -05 versions of the document reflect this review. 

(4) Does the document Shepherd have any concerns about the depth or 
    breadth of the reviews that have been performed? 

No, the document has had a great deal of careful review. 

(5) Do portions of the document need review from a particular or from 
    broader perspective, e.g., security, operational complexity, AAA, 
    DNS, DHCP, XML, or internationalization? If so, describe the 
    review that took place. 

This is strictly a DHCP doc, and has had plenty of review from DHCP
experts. 

(6) Describe any specific concerns or issues that the Document 
    Shepherd has with this document that the Responsible Area Director 
    and/or the IESG should be aware of? For example, perhaps he or she 
    is uncomfortable with certain parts of the document, or has 
    concerns whether there really is a need for it. In any event, if 
    the WG has discussed those issues and has indicated that it still 
    wishes to advance the document, detail those concerns here. 

I think the document is good as written, and serves a useful purpose.


(7) Has each author confirmed that any and all appropriate IPR 
    disclosures required for full conformance with the provisions of 
    BCP 78 and BCP 79 have already been filed. If not, explain why? 

Yes, the authors, Mohamed Boucadair and Xavier Pougnard, did confirm
that they are not aware of any IPR.

(8) Has an IPR disclosure been filed that references this document? If 
    so, summarize any WG discussion and conclusion regarding the IPR 
    disclosures. 

No.

(9) How solid is the WG consensus behind this document? Does it 
    represent the strong concurrence of a few individuals, with others 
    being silent, or does the WG as a whole understand and agree with it? 

There is a strong consensus behind this document and in particular from
very active WG participants (i.e. "DHCP experts").

(10) Has anyone threatened an appeal or otherwise indicated extreme 
    discontent? If so, please summarise the areas of conflict in 
    separate email messages to the Responsible Area Director. (It 
    should be in a separate email because this questionnaire is 
    publicly available.) 

No, and nobody's indicated that they were against the WGLC or had
any issues with the document. 

(11) Identify any ID nits the Document Shepherd has found in this 
    document. (See http://www.ietf.org/tools/idnits/ and the 
    Internet-Drafts Checklist). Boilerplate checks are not enough; 
    this check needs to be thorough. 

The document passes idnits with no errors and review using the
checklist did not turn up any issues.

(12) Describe how the document meets any required formal review 
    criteria, such as the MIB Doctor, media type, and URI type 
    reviews. 

The document contains nothing like this. 

(13) Have all references within this document been identified as 
    either normative or informative? 

Yes. 

(14) Are there normative references to documents that are not ready 
    for advancement or are otherwise in an unclear state? If such 
    normative references exist, what is the plan for their 
    completion? 

No, all the normative references are to RFCs. 

(15) Are there downward normative references references (see RFC 
    3967)? If so, list these downward references to support the Area 
    Director in the Last Call procedure. 

No. 

(16) Will publication of this document change the status of any 
    existing RFCs? Are those RFCs listed on the title page header, 
    listed in the abstract, and discussed in the introduction? If the 
    RFCs are not listed in the Abstract and Introduction, explain 
    why, and point to the part of the document where the relationship 
    of this document to the other RFCs is discussed. If this 
    information is not in the document, explain why the WG considers 
    it unnecessary. 

RFC 3315 and RFC 6422 will be extended - new DHCPv6 messages will be
added and the RSOO option processing will be expanded. The document
indicates these RFCs.


(17) Describe the Document Shepherd's review of the IANA 
    considerations section, especially with regard to its consistency 
    with the body of the document. Confirm that all protocol 
    extensions that the document makes are associated with the 
    appropriate reservations in IANA registries. Confirm that any 
    referenced IANA registries have been clearly identified. Confirm 
    that newly created IANA registries include a detailed 
    specification of the initial contents for the registry, that 
    allocations procedures for future registrations are defined, and 
    a reasonable name for the new registry has been suggested (see 
    RFC 5226). 

I reviewed the IANA Considerations section and it is fine and clear;
two new DHCPv6 options are being requested (registry is clearly
identified). 

(18) List any new IANA registries that require Expert Review for 
    future allocations. Provide any public guidance that the IESG 
    would find useful in selecting the IANA Experts for these new 
    registries. 

None. 

(19) Describe reviews and automated checks performed by the Document 
    Shepherd to validate sections of the document written in a formal 
    language, such as XML code, BNF rules, MIB definitions, etc. 

There are no such parts to the document.
