As required by RFC 4858, this is the current template for the Document
Shepherd Write-Up.

Changes are expected over time. This version is dated 24 February
2012.

Write-up for draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv6-stateful-issues-10

(1) What type of RFC is being requested (BCP, Proposed Standard,
Internet Standard, Informational, Experimental, or Historic)?  Why
is this the proper type of RFC?  Is this type of RFC indicated in the
title page header?

  Standards track. It proposes several updates to RFC3315 and RFC3633
  (both are proposed standard), so this is the right type. The
  intended type is clearly indicated in the page header.

(2) The IESG approval announcement includes a Document Announcement
Write-Up. Please provide such a Document Announcement Write-Up. Recent
examples can be found in the "Action" announcements for approved
documents. The approval announcement contains the following sections:

Technical Summary

  DHCPv6 (RFC3316) was not written with the initial expectation that
  additional stateful DHCPv6 options would be developed. Prefix
  Delegation (RFC3633) introduced IA_PD option. Implementation
  experience of the CPE model described in RFC 7084 has shown
  multiple issues with the DHCPv6 protocol in supporting multiple
  stateful options. This document updates RFC 3315 and RFC 3633 to
  address the identified issues. It is also considered an essential
  milestone in the 3315bis work.

Working Group Summary

  This draft was around in DHC for a long time (WG item since May
  2012) and was discussed extensively (248 mails posted to the dhc
  list, with many more off-line and to dhcpv6bis list). It was started
  as a spin-off from RFC7084 work (Basic requirements for IPv6 CE
  routers). This I-D went through three WGLCs. The first one (for -03)
  in Jan. 2013 failed due to lack of responses. The document went into
  hibernation for a while, and we had a second WGLC in Fed. 2014.
  Some feedback and support was received, but chairs decided that
  it's not sufficient for such important I-D (it tweaks several major
  mechanisms in DHCPv6, so we felt that the bar is set higher than
  average). Finally, the third WGLC in Dec. 2014 passed. There
  was never any opposition to this draft. The challenge was to
  persuade people to voice their support.

Document Quality

  This I-D clarifies and corrects several inconstencies in DHCPv6.
  The ambiguity in the RFC3315 and RFC3633 cause some interop
  problems. Several of the issues addressed were raised during
  interop events. One could even say that many parts of this I-D are
  implemented for many years now.

  This document is of high quality. It was extensively reviewed
  by matter experts, including Ted Lemon, Tim Winters, Jinmei Tatuya
  and others. This I-D is also considered an essential step
  in 3315bis work, so it received further reviews and discussions
  in dhcpv6bis team.

  Are there existing implementations of the protocol? Have a
  significant number of vendors indicated their plan to
  implement the specification? Are there any reviewers that
  merit special mention as having done a thorough review,
  e.g., one that resulted in important changes or a
  conclusion that the document had no substantive issues? If
  there was a MIB Doctor, Media Type or other expert review,
  what was its course (briefly)? In the case of a Media Type
  review, on what date was the request posted?

Personnel

  Who is the Document Shepherd? Who is the Responsible Area
  Director?

(3) Briefly describe the review of this document that was performed by
the Document Shepherd.  If this version of the document is not ready
for publication, please explain why the document is being forwarded to
the IESG.

  I thoroughly reviewed this document three times:
  http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/dhcwg/current/msg16059.html (-09)
  http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/dhcwg/current/msg13797.html (-03)
  http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/dhcwg/current/msg12591.html (-00)

  I also participated in many discussions related to it (face to face,
  on dhc list, on dhcpv6bis, and off the list). This document is ready
  in my opinion and should be published as soon as possible.

(4) Does the document Shepherd have any concerns about the depth or
breadth of the reviews that have been performed?

  No. This document was thoroughly reviewed and it should be published.

(5) Do portions of the document need review from a particular or from
broader perspective, e.g., security, operational complexity, AAA, DNS,
DHCP, XML, or internationalization? If so, describe the review that
took place.

  This I-D is DHCPv6-centric, so DHC is the proper WG for this work.
  It was reviewed extensively. There is no need for any outside area
  review.

  TODO: mention that the original request for this came from v6ops (or
  was it 6man).

(6) Describe any specific concerns or issues that the Document Shepherd
has with this document that the Responsible Area Director and/or the
IESG should be aware of? For example, perhaps he or she is uncomfortable
with certain parts of the document, or has concerns whether there really
is a need for it. In any event, if the WG has discussed those issues and
has indicated that it still wishes to advance the document, detail those
concerns here.

(7) Has each author confirmed that any and all appropriate IPR
disclosures required for full conformance with the provisions of BCP 78
and BCP 79 have already been filed. If not, explain why.

  Yes, all authors confirmed. There are no IPRs, existing or
  outstanding.

(8) Has an IPR disclosure been filed that references this document?
If so, summarize any WG discussion and conclusion regarding the IPR
disclosures.

  No.

(9) How solid is the WG consensus behind this document? Does it
represent the strong concurrence of a few individuals, with others
being silent, or does the WG as a whole understand and agree with it?

  The consensus is pretty solid. This document is active in the DHC
  for quite a long time, so the support was expressed over multiple
  occasions. This draft is essentially a collection of small tweaks
  to the DHCPv6 protocol. It was a sort of judgment call to what to
  include in this draft and what postpone to dhcpv6bis. There were
  infrequent suggestions to include more in stateful-issues, but
  the consensus is very solid in this case.

(10) Has anyone threatened an appeal or otherwise indicated extreme
discontent? If so, please summarise the areas of conflict in separate
email messages to the Responsible Area Director. (It should be in a
separate email because this questionnaire is publicly available.)

  No.

(11) Identify any ID nits the Document Shepherd has found in this
document. (See http://www.ietf.org/tools/idnits/ and the Internet-Drafts
Checklist). Boilerplate checks are not enough; this check needs to be
thorough.

  idnits reports mis-used MUST not :(
  TODO

(12) Describe how the document meets any required formal review
criteria, such as the MIB Doctor, media type, and URI type reviews.

(13) Have all references within this document been identified as
either normative or informative?

(14) Are there normative references to documents that are not ready for
advancement or are otherwise in an unclear state? If such normative
references exist, what is the plan for their completion?

(15) Are there downward normative references references (see RFC 3967)?
If so, list these downward references to support the Area Director in
the Last Call procedure.

  No. There are no such references.

(16) Will publication of this document change the status of any
existing RFCs? Are those RFCs listed on the title page header, listed
in the abstract, and discussed in the introduction? If the RFCs are not
listed in the Abstract and Introduction, explain why, and point to the
part of the document where the relationship of this document to the
other RFCs is discussed. If this information is not in the document,
explain why the WG considers it unnecessary.

  Yes. This document will update RFC3315 and RFC3633. That is clearly
  stated on the front page and in the abstract. The nature of those
  changes are discussed in the Introduction.

(17) Describe the Document Shepherd's review of the IANA considerations
section, especially with regard to its consistency with the body of the
document. Confirm that all protocol extensions that the document makes
are associated with the appropriate reservations in IANA registries.
Confirm that any referenced IANA registries have been clearly
identified. Confirm that newly created IANA registries include a
detailed specification of the initial contents for the registry, that
allocations procedures for future registrations are defined, and a
reasonable name for the new registry has been suggested (see RFC 5226).

  This document does not require any IANA actions. That is clearly
  stated in the IANA considerations section.

(18) List any new IANA registries that require Expert Review for future
allocations. Provide any public guidance that the IESG would find
useful in selecting the IANA Experts for these new registries.

  There no such registries defined.

(19) Describe reviews and automated checks performed by the Document
Shepherd to validate sections of the document written in a formal
language, such as XML code, BNF rules, MIB definitions, etc.

  There are no such sections, so automated checks are not necessary.
